introduction/introduction.rst, before:

Overview
########

What exactly is Indicia?
------------------------

.. sidebar:: Highlights
  
  * Capture, map, report and verify wildlife records
  * Complete flexibility
  * Free and open source

A toolkit that simplifies the construction of websites, Indicia supports 
wildlife observation recording forms that are as simple or advanced as you need,
also allowing photo upload, reporting, mapping and verification of the records. 
By providing these facilities via a comprehensive set of highly configurable 
components, Indicia can be used to build diverse and unique recording sites.
Indicai is not a fixed, off the shelf system, instead it provides a
infrastructure and tools for rapidly developing online recording websites that 
fit your exact needs.

Because Indicia allows complete flexibility in the data entry forms that can be
created, it is suitable for anything from public participation surveys targeted
at school children right through to structured long-term monitoring projects 
performed by professional surveyors. 

Conceived as part of the 
`Open Air Laboratories (OPAL) <http://www.OPALexplorenature.org/>`_ and
managed by the `Centre for Ecology and Hydrology <http://www.ceh.ac.uk/>`_, 
Indicia is free and open source software serving the biological recording 
community within the UK and Europe.

Key Features
------------

* Completely flexible - build any wildlife recording form to suit your survey's needs
* Photo upload
* Pick grid references from a Google, Bing or any other map layer so say goodbye
  to incorrectly transcribed grid references
* Rapid entry of lists of species at a site
* Tools provided for expert verification of data including integration with the
  `NBN Record Cleaner <http://www.nbn.org.uk/Tools-Resources/Recording-Resources/NBN-Record-Cleaner.aspx>`_
  rules (no need to download data into Record Cleaner) and 
  bulk verification facilities
* Easily download data as spreadsheets or NBN Exchange format
* Access data via spatial web services direct from a GIS application or Google
  Earth.
* Support for multi-lingual websites - build forms in any language or even 
  to support multiple languages.
* Can be integrated into most existing websites or build a complete site using 
  Indicia along with the power of `Drupal <http://drupal.org>`_.
* Use Instant Indicia to provide a rapid installation of an online recording
  website with simple configuration, whilst retaining the full flexibility of 
  Indicia.
* All this whilst free and open source no software fees and all developments on 
  Indicia are provided to the community to benefit all.

Commit message:

Jigsaw logo added to introduction

introduction/introduction.rst, after:

Overview
########

What exactly is Indicia?
------------------------

.. image:: ../images/jigsaw.jpg
  :width: 500pt
  :alt: Indicia provides the building pieces for online recording websites.

.. sidebar:: Highlights
  
  * Capture, map, report and verify wildlife records
  * Complete flexibility
  * Free and open source

Indicia provides the pieces you need to build online biological recording 
websites. A toolkit that simplifies the construction of websites, Indicia 
supports wildlife observation recording forms that are as simple or advanced as 
you need, also allowing photo upload, reporting, mapping and verification of the
records. By providing these facilities via a comprehensive set of highly 
configurable components, Indicia can be used to build diverse and unique 
recording sites. Indicia is not a fixed, off the shelf system, instead it 
provides a infrastructure and tools for rapidly developing online recording 
websites that fit your exact needs.

Because Indicia allows complete flexibility in the data entry forms that can be
created, it is suitable for anything from public participation surveys targeted
at school children right through to structured long-term monitoring projects 
performed by professional surveyors. 

Conceived as part of the 
`Open Air Laboratories (OPAL) <http://www.OPALexplorenature.org/>`_ and
managed by the `Centre for Ecology and Hydrology <http://www.ceh.ac.uk/>`_, 
Indicia is free and open source software serving the biological recording 
community within the UK and Europe.

Key Features
------------

* Completely flexible - build any wildlife recording form to suit your survey's needs
* Photo upload
* Pick grid references from a Google, Bing or any other map layer so say goodbye
  to incorrectly transcribed grid references
* Rapid entry of lists of species at a site
* Tools provided for expert verification of data including integration with the
  `NBN Record Cleaner <http://www.nbn.org.uk/Tools-Resources/Recording-Resources/NBN-Record-Cleaner.aspx>`_
  rules (no need to download data into Record Cleaner) and 
  bulk verification facilities
* Easily download data as spreadsheets or NBN Exchange format
* Access data via spatial web services direct from a GIS application or Google
  Earth.
* Support for multi-lingual websites - build forms in any language or even 
  to support multiple languages.
* Can be integrated into most existing websites or build a complete site using 
  Indicia along with the power of `Drupal <http://drupal.org>`_.
* Use Instant Indicia to provide a rapid installation of an online recording
  website with simple configuration, whilst retaining the full flexibility of 
  Indicia.
* All this whilst free and open source no software fees and all developments on 
  Indicia are provided to the community to benefit all.
